---
layout: post
title: "Decays of B Mesons: An Introduction for the Layperson"
categories: physics
---

This is a little post about a topic which is close to my heart: B decays. These are what I did my research on during my Masters, and I still like to keep up with developments in this sector in my off-time. Hopefully this proves an accessible, though challenging, introduction.

Let's hop to it!

## Preliminaries

### Quarks

Quarks are some of the fundamental particles in the Standard Model (our current best-fit model) of particle physics. To be a bit more specific, they are _charged fermions_, meaning they have electric charge, and half-integer spin - it's not particularly important at the moment to know exactly what "spin" is.

There are six "flavours" of quark: down ($$d$$), up ($$u$$), charm ($$c$$), strange ($$s$$), bottom (or beauty, for those of a more poetic bent) ($$b$$), and top ($$t$$). These are matched by antiquark versions, with equal mass, spin and so on, but opposite electric charge. The antiquarks, as with all antiparticles, are denoted by a bar across the top of the letter.

### B Mesons

Let's go up a bit in particle-size, and talk about mesons. Mesons are "bound states" - i.e. composites - of a quark and an antiquark: $$q \bar{q}$$. Contrast these with baryons, which carry an odd number (usually three, though baryons with five have been found) of quarks.

B mesons, specifically, are those with a $$b$$ quark or antiquark; the other quark (I'll henceforth imply charge conjugation - i.e. antiparticles - whenever I say "quark" or similar) is indicated usually by a subscript next to the $B$; for example, a $$B_s$$ meson has a beauty and a strange quark. The overall charge of the meson is then indicated as usual by a superscript: $$B^0_s$$.

### How High-Energy Physics Experimentation Works

WIP
